SKILL.md, before:

---
name: openclaw-maintainer
description: PR review and merge automation for OpenClaw maintainers. Review with opus, prep and merge with a gpt subagent. Use when asked to review, prep, or merge a PR.
---

# OpenClaw Maintainer

PR review + prep + merge automation. Uses opus for review, gpt for prep and merge.

## SAFETY: NEVER PUSH TO MAIN

Subagents have full disk access. The one inviolable rule:
- NEVER force-push, push, or directly commit to `main` or `origin/main`.
- All pushes go to PR head branches only.
- The only way code reaches main is through `gh pr merge --squash`.
- If gates (lint/build/test) have not passed, do NOT merge.

## Command Files

The actual command files live in this skill's `commands/` folder. Subagents read these directly (they do NOT read this SKILL.md file).
- `commands/reviewpr.md` - review only
- `commands/preparepr.md` - rebase, fix, run gates, push fixes, but do NOT merge
- `commands/mergepr.md` - merge only

## Workflow Overview (3 step)

1. **User:** "review PR #2403"
2. **Main agent:** spawns opus subagent via `sessions_spawn`. Subagent reads `commands/reviewpr.md` and executes.
3. **Opus subagent:** reviews, pings back findings
4. **Main agent:** summarizes for user (ready for prep, needs work, concerns)
5. **User:** "ok prep it" / "fix X first" / "don't merge"
6. **Main agent:** if approved, spawns gpt subagent (high thinking) via `sessions_spawn`. Subagent reads `commands/preparepr.md`.
7. **GPT subagent:** rebases, fixes, runs gates, pushes updates to PR branch (never main), pings back `PR is ready for /mergepr`
8. **User:** "merge it"
9. **Main agent:** spawns gpt subagent (high thinking) via `sessions_spawn`. Subagent reads `commands/mergepr.md`.
10. **GPT subagent:** merges via `gh pr merge --squash` (the only path to main), pings back merge SHA
11. **Main agent:** confirms to user with merge SHA

## ⚠️ ALWAYS USE SUBAGENT

Review, prep, and merge are long running tasks. NEVER run in the main thread. Always use `sessions_spawn` to create a subagent.

## Model Preferences

Preferred models (fall back to session default if not available):
- Review: `model:opus` (best for nuanced code review)
- Prep: `model:gpt` with `thinking:high` (methodical fixes + gates)
- Merge: `model:gpt` with `thinking:high` (careful merge flow)

## Config (optional)

Create `config.yaml` in this skill folder to override defaults:

```yaml
# ~/openclaw/skills/openclaw-maintainer/config.yaml
models:
  review: opus          # or anthropic/claude-opus-4-5, or leave blank for default
  prepare: gpt          # or openai-codex/gpt-5.2, or leave blank for default
  merge: gpt            # or openai-codex/gpt-5.2, or leave blank for default
  prepare_thinking: high
  merge_thinking: high
```

If config not present or model not available, uses session default model.

## Review Workflow (/reviewpr)

Spawn a subagent with a task referencing the command file:

```
sessions_spawn task:"Review PR #<number> in openclaw repo. Read commands/reviewpr.md and follow its instructions exactly." model:opus runTimeoutSeconds:0 (infinite)
```

If opus isn't configured, omit the model param to use the session default.

## Prep Workflow (/preparepr)

Spawn a subagent for prep (only after user approves):

```
sessions_spawn task:"Prepare PR #<number> in openclaw repo. Read commands/preparepr.md and follow its instructions exactly." model:gpt thinking:high runTimeoutSeconds:0 (infinite)
```

If gpt isn't configured, omit the model param. Thinking is optional but recommended.

## Merge Workflow (/mergepr)

Spawn a subagent for merge (only after prep is done and user says yes):

```
sessions_spawn task:"Merge PR #<number> in openclaw repo. Read commands/mergepr.md and follow its instructions exactly." model:gpt thinking:high runTimeoutSeconds:0 (infinite)
```

## Important Notes

- Subagents read the command file directly, they do NOT read this SKILL.md
- Each command file is self-contained with all setup, steps, and safety rules
- If checks or gates fail, report failure and stop, do not force merge
- If merge fails, report and do NOT retry in a loop
- PR must end in MERGED state, never CLOSED
- Code only reaches main through `gh pr merge --squash`, never through direct push

Commit message:

Enhance SKILL.md and command files with detailed push verification steps, improved error handling, and updated workflows for preparing and merging PRs. Ensure safety checks for branch states and clarify the use of worktrees. Update commands to maintain a clean main branch state during reviews.

SKILL.md, after:

---
name: openclaw-maintainer
description: PR review and merge automation for OpenClaw maintainers. Review with opus, prep and merge with a gpt subagent. Use when asked to review, prep, or merge a PR.
---

# OpenClaw Maintainer

PR review + prep + merge automation. Uses opus for review, gpt for prep and merge.

## SAFETY: NEVER PUSH TO MAIN

Subagents have full disk access. The one inviolable rule:
- NEVER force-push, push, or directly commit to `main` or `origin/main`.
- All pushes go to PR head branches only.
- The only way code reaches main is through `gh pr merge --squash`.
- If gates (lint/build/test) have not passed, do NOT merge.

## Command Files

The actual command files live in this skill's `commands/` folder. Subagents read these directly (they do NOT read this SKILL.md file).
- `commands/reviewpr.md` - review only
- `commands/preparepr.md` - rebase, fix, run gates, push fixes, but do NOT merge
- `commands/mergepr.md` - merge only

## Workflow Overview (3 step)

1. **User:** "review PR #2403"
2. **Main agent:** spawns opus subagent via `sessions_spawn`. Subagent reads `commands/reviewpr.md` and executes.
3. **Opus subagent:** reviews, pings back findings
4. **Main agent:** summarizes for user (ready for prep, needs work, concerns)
5. **User:** "ok prep it" / "fix X first" / "don't merge"
6. **Main agent:** if approved, spawns gpt subagent (high thinking) via `sessions_spawn`. Subagent reads `commands/preparepr.md`.
7. **GPT subagent:** rebases, fixes, runs gates, commits, pushes updates to the PR head branch (never main), and MUST verify the push landed (local HEAD sha == remote branch sha == gh PR head sha). It also best-effort returns the main repo checkout to `main` so editors show a sane state.
8. **User:** "merge it"
9. **Main agent:** spawns gpt subagent (high thinking) via `sessions_spawn`. Subagent reads `commands/mergepr.md`.
10. **GPT subagent:** verifies the remote PR branch still matches the last prepared push, then merges via `gh pr merge --squash` (the only path to main), pings back merge SHA
11. **Main agent:** confirms to user with merge SHA

## ⚠️ ALWAYS USE SUBAGENT

Review, prep, and merge are long running tasks. NEVER run in the main thread. Always use `sessions_spawn` to create a subagent.

## Model Preferences

Preferred models (fall back to session default if not available):
- Review: `model:opus` (best for nuanced code review)
- Prep: `model:gpt` with `thinking:high` (methodical fixes + gates + push verification)
- Merge: `model:gpt` with `thinking:high` (careful merge flow)

## Config (optional)

Create `config.yaml` in this skill folder to override defaults:

```yaml
# ~/openclaw/skills/openclaw-maintainer/config.yaml
models:
  review: opus          # or anthropic/claude-opus-4-5, or leave blank for default
  prepare: gpt          # or openai-codex/gpt-5.2, or leave blank for default
  merge: gpt            # or openai-codex/gpt-5.2, or leave blank for default
  prepare_thinking: high
  merge_thinking: high
```

If config not present or model not available, uses session default model.

## Review Workflow (/reviewpr)

Spawn a subagent with a task referencing the command file:

```
sessions_spawn task:"Review PR #<number> in openclaw repo. Read commands/reviewpr.md and follow its instructions exactly." model:opus runTimeoutSeconds:0 (infinite)
```

If opus isn't configured, omit the model param to use the session default.

## Prep Workflow (/preparepr)

Spawn a subagent for prep (only after user approves):

```
sessions_spawn task:"Prepare PR #<number> in openclaw repo. Read commands/preparepr.md and follow its instructions exactly." model:gpt thinking:high runTimeoutSeconds:0 (infinite)
```

If gpt isn't configured, omit the model param. Thinking is optional but recommended.

## Merge Workflow (/mergepr)

Spawn a subagent for merge (only after prep is done and user says yes):

```
sessions_spawn task:"Merge PR #<number> in openclaw repo. Read commands/mergepr.md and follow its instructions exactly." model:gpt thinking:high runTimeoutSeconds:0 (infinite)
```

## Important Notes

- Subagents read the command file directly, they do NOT read this SKILL.md
- Each command file is self-contained with all setup, steps, and safety rules
- If checks or gates fail, report failure and stop, do not force merge
- If merge fails, report and do NOT retry in a loop
- PR must end in MERGED state, never CLOSED
- Code only reaches main through `gh pr merge --squash`, never through direct push
